## Linux Fundamentals: Read and Write Text Files
Practice basic file read/write using fundamental commands:
 - Creating a file
 - Writing text to a file
 - Appending new lines
 - Reading the file back

---

Steps:

1. Create a file named notes.txt
2. Write 3 lines into the file using redirection (> and >>)
3. Use cat to read the full file
4. Use head and tail to read parts of the file
5. Use tee once to write and display at the same time

Command flow:

Creating, writing into a file:

1. touch notes.txt
2. echo "Line 1" > notes.txt
3. echo "Line 2" >> notes.txt
4. echo "Line 3" | tee -a notes.txt
5. cat notes.txt
6. head -n 2 notes.txt
7. tail -n 2 notes.txt

Deleting content in a file:

1. Delete all lines containing content 'Line 3' -
     `sed -i '/Line 3/d' notes.txt`

2. Delete only the last line -
     `sed -i '$d' notes.txt`

3. Deleting a specific line number -
     `sed -i '3d' notes.txt`

---

## Linux File System Hierarchy

1. `/`(Root Directory) - The root (/) is the top-level directory in Linux. Every file and folder starts from here.

       ls -l /

       Example o/p:

       drwxr-xr-x   3 root root    4096 Apr 23 07:25 Docker
       lrwxrwxrwx   1 root root       7 Apr 22  2024 bin -> usr/bin

2. `/root` - Home directory for the root(administrator) user.

       ls -l /root

3. `/etc` - Contains system-wide configuration files and service settings.

        ls -l /etc

        Example o/p:

        -rw-r--r-- 1 root root       3144 Oct 17  2022 protocols
        drwxr-xr-x 2 root root       4096 Feb 10 00:55 python3
        drwxr-xr-x 2 root root       4096 May  8 11:25 python3.12
   

4. `/var/log` - Stores log files generated by the OS and applications. Important for troubleshooting and DevOps.

       ls -l /var/log

       Example o/p:

       -rw-r-----  1 syslog    adm          18339 May  8 11:24 auth.log
       -rw-r--r--  1 root      root         118497 Feb 10 00:55 bootstrap.log


5. `/tmp` - Temporary files created by application and users. Usually cleared after reboot.
  
           ls -l /tmp


6. `/bin` -  Contains essential Linux command binaries required for booting and basic system usage.

          ls -l /bin


7. `/user/bin` - Stores most user-level command binaries and installed applications.

          ls -l /usr/bin

          Example o/p:
   
          -rwxr-xr-x 1 root root     4066232 Jul  2  2025  git
          -rwxr-xr-x 1 root root       89800 Jul 24  2025  ping

---

Summary:

| Directory  |     Importance         |
| ---------- | ---------------------- |
| `/etc`     | Service configurations |
| `/var/log` | Troubleshooting logs   |
| `/home`    | User scripts/projects  |
| `/tmp`     | Temporary debugging    |
| `/usr/bin` | Installed tools        |
| `/opt`     | Third-party apps       |
